drivers: platform_metrics: Provider framework for battery/temperature metrics (#29999)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/wifi/recal_monitor/README.rst

.. _wifi_recal_monitor_sample:

Wi-Fi: Recalibration monitor providers
#######################################

> .. contents::

Reviewer: no fixup commits

Author: Fair, squashed the interval fix back into the sample-add commit so there'\''s no separate fixup commit for a bug that never appeared outside this PR. Force-pushed.

.. _wifi_recal_monitor_sample:

Wi-Fi: Recalibration monitor providers
#######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates the Wi-Fi recalibration monitor driver's provider
framework: how a channel's live data is supplied, and the two ways to
supply it.
See :ref:`wifi_recal_monitor` for the full driver documentation.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

The sample periodically logs two channels:

* Die temperature: supplied by the driver's built-in, devicetree-selected
  sensor provider (tier 1). On this DK it reads the SoC's own die

>   temperature sensor with no devicetree changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Die temperature: supplied by the driver's built-in, devicetree-selected sensor provider (tier 1).
  On this DK it reads the SoC's own die temperature sensor with no devicetree changes.
```
Please fix the entire doc, not cutting sentences at the 80th char

same provider at a different sensor, build with the extra overlay in this
sample directory:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp samples/wifi/recal_monitor -- \
      -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=chosen_override.overlay

This DK has no second temperature sensor, so the overlay points the
``nordic,wifi-recal-die-temp-sensor`` chosen property back at the same ``temp``
node. It exists to prove the override is picked up, not to change the
reading. On a custom board, point it at your own sensor's nodelabel
instead.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/recal_monitor`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp samples/wifi/recal_monitor

.. include:: /includes/wifi_refer_sample_yaml_file.txt

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Observe the periodic log output, for example:

   .. code-block:: console

      [00:00:02.011,000] <inf> wifi_recal_sample: die temp: 24.87 C (tier 1, built-in sensor provider) | battery: 4180 mV (tier 2, custom mock provider)

>       [00:00:04.011,000] <inf> wifi_recal_sample: die temp: 24.93 C (tier 1, built-in sensor provider) | battery: 4160 mV (tier 2, custom mock provider)

Reviewer 2: Is there any dependency needed by this sample?  if yes, please add the dependencies section at the end of this doc. See: https://nrfconnectdocs.nordicsemi.com/ncs/latest/nrf/templates/sample_README.html

.. _wifi_recal_monitor_sample:

> Wi-Fi: Recalibration monitor providers

Reviewer 3: Should it be Provider?

Author: Kept it plural on purpose: the sample concretely demonstrates two providers side by side (the built-in die-temp sensor provider and the mock battery provider), so "providers" describes what'\''s actually shown. The driver'\''s own doc title stays singular ("driver") since that'\''s one driver with a provider framework, but this sample page is specifically about the two provider instances. Happy to change if you feel strongly, just flagging the reasoning.

> #######################################

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wi-Fi: Recalibration monitor providers
######################################
```

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This sample demonstrates the Wi-Fi recalibration monitor driver's provider framework: how a channel's live data is supplied, and the two ways to supply it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Recalibration monitor providers sample demonstrates the :ref:`Wi‑Fi recalibration monitor driver's <wifi_recal_monitor>` provider framework, showing how a channel's live data is supplied and the two ways to supply it.
```

> See :ref:`wifi_recal_monitor` for the full driver documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Requirements
************

> The sample supports the following development kits:

Reviewer 3: As there is only one DK mentioned in the table.
```suggestion
The sample supports the following development kit:
```

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

> The sample periodically logs two wifi_recal_monitor channels, plus the board's XO frequency offset:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sample periodically logs two ``wifi_recal_monitor`` channels, along with the board's XO frequency offset:
```

> * Die temperature: supplied by the driver's built-in, devicetree-selected sensor provider (tier 1).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Die temperature: It is supplied by the driver's built-in, devicetree-selected sensor provider (tier 1).
```

>   On this DK it reads the SoC's own die temperature sensor with no devicetree changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  On this DK, it reads the SoC's internal die-temperature sensor without any devicetree changes.
```

> * Battery voltage: supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`) registered directly with :c:macro:`WIFI_RECAL_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, simulating a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 and 4200 mV (tier 2).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Battery voltage: It is supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`), which is registered directly with :c:macro:`WIFI_RECAL_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, and simulates a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 and 4200 mV (tier 2).
```

>   It uses no sensor API at all.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  It does not use the sensor API.
```

>   The point is that a provider's internals can be anything, such as a proprietary fuel-gauge library or a raw register read, as long as it implements the ``init()``/``sample()`` pair.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This demonstrates that a provider's implementation can be anything, such as a proprietary fuel-gauge library or a raw register read, as long as it implements the ``init()`` and ``sample()`` functions.
```

> * XO frequency offset: not a wifi_recal_monitor channel at all, since it is a fixed per-board-design constant rather than something that drifts at runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* XO frequency offset: It is not a ``wifi_recal_monitor`` channel, because it is a fixed per-board-design constant rather than a value that drifts at runtime.
```

>   The sample reads it directly from the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi node, the same way the Wi-Fi driver itself does.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The sample reads it directly from the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi® node, just as the Wi‑Fi driver does.
```

Configuration
*************

|config|

Devicetree override (tier 1)

> =============================

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Devicetree override (tier 1)
============================
```

> The die-temperature provider normally falls back to the SoC's own ``temp`` sensor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The die-temperature provider normally falls back to the SoC's internal ``temp`` sensor.
```

> To see the tier-1 override mechanism that lets a board point the same provider at a different sensor, build with the extra overlay in this sample directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To see the tier-1 override mechanism that allows a board to point the same provider to a different sensor, build with the additional overlay in this sample directory:
```

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp samples/wifi/recal_monitor -- \
      -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=chosen_override.overlay

> This DK has no second temperature sensor, so the overlay points the ``nordic,wifi-recal-die-temp-sensor`` chosen property back at the same ``temp`` node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This DK has no second temperature sensor, so the overlay points the ``nordic,wifi-recal-die-temp-sensor`` chosen property back to the same ``temp`` node.
```

> It exists to prove the override is picked up, not to change the reading.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It exists to demonstrate that the override is applied, not to change the reading.
```

> On a custom board, point it at your own sensor's nodelabel instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On a custom board, point it to your own sensor's nodelabel instead.
```

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/recal_monitor`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

> .. code-block:: console

Reviewer 3: Please add some context here to use the below code.

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp samples/wifi/recal_monitor

.. include:: /includes/wifi_refer_sample_yaml_file.txt

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Observe the periodic log output, for example:

   .. code-block:: console

      [00:00:02.011,000] <inf> wifi_recal_sample: die temp: 24.87 C (tier 1, built-in sensor provider) | battery: 4180 mV (tier 2, custom mock provider) | XO offset: 0 ppm (board devicetree constant)
      [00:00:04.011,000] <inf> wifi_recal_sample: die temp: 24.93 C (tier 1, built-in sensor provider) | battery: 4160 mV (tier 2, custom mock provider) | XO offset: 0 ppm (board devicetree constant)

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| driver:

* :ref:`wifi_recal_monitor`

> It also requires the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi node, added to the ``nordic,nrf7120-wifi`` binding by `sdk-zephyr#4260`_.

Reviewer 3: Should this come under Requirements section instead of Dependencies?

> .. _sdk-zephyr#4260: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-zephyr/pull/4260

Reviewer 3: Add this link in the links.txt file.

..
   Copyright (c) 2026 Nordic Semiconductor ASA

>    SPDX-License-Identifier: LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

we never add copyright notices to rst files

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Recalibration monitor providers sample demonstrates the :ref:`platform metrics library's <platform_metrics>` provider framework for a Wi-Fi recalibration use case, showing how a channel's live data is supplied and the two ways to supply it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Recalibration monitor providers sample demonstrates the :ref:`Platform metrics library's <platform_metrics>` provider framework for a Wi-Fi® recalibration use case, showing how a channel's live data is supplied and the two ways to supply it.
```

   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Recalibration monitor providers sample demonstrates the :ref:`platform metrics library's <platform_metrics>` provider framework for a Wi-Fi recalibration use case, showing how a channel's live data is supplied and the two ways to supply it.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The sample also requires the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi node, added to the ``nordic,nrf7120-wifi`` binding by `sdk-zephyr PR #4260`_.

Overview
********

The sample periodically logs two ``platform_metrics`` channels, along with the board's XO frequency offset:

> * Die temperature: It is supplied by the library's built-in, devicetree-selected sensor provider (tier 1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Die temperature - It is supplied by the library's built-in, devicetree-selected sensor provider (tier 1).
```

>   On this DK, it reads the SoC's internal die-temperature sensor without any devicetree changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  On this DK, it reads the SoC's internal die temperature sensor without any devicetree changes.
```

> * Battery voltage: It is supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`), which is registered directly with :c:macro:`WIFI_RECAL_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, and simulates a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 and 4200 mV (tier 2).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Battery voltage: It is supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`), which is registered directly with :c:macro:`WIFI_RECAL_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, and simulates a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 mV and 4200 mV (tier 2).
```

> * Battery voltage: It is supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`), which is registered directly with :c:macro:`PLATFORM_METRICS_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, and simulates a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 mV and 4200 mV (tier 2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Battery voltage - It is supplied by a mock provider in this sample (:file:`src/mock_battery_provider.c`), which is registered directly with :c:macro:`PLATFORM_METRICS_CHANNEL_DEFINE`, and simulates a battery discharging and recharging between 3300 mV and 4200 mV (tier 2).
```

  It does not use the sensor API.
  This demonstrates that a provider's implementation can be anything, such as a proprietary fuel-gauge library or a raw register read, as long as it implements the ``init()`` and ``sample()`` functions.

> * XO frequency offset: It is not a ``platform_metrics`` channel, because it is a fixed per-board-design constant rather than a value that drifts at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* XO frequency offset - It is not a ``platform_metrics`` channel, because it is a fixed per-board-design constant rather than a value that drifts at runtime.
```

>   The sample reads it directly from the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi® node, just as the Wi-Fi driver does.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The sample reads it directly from the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi node, just as the Wi-Fi driver does.
```

  The sample reads it directly from the ``nordic,wifi-xo-freq-offset`` devicetree property on the Wi-Fi® node, just as the Wi-Fi driver does.

Configuration
*************

|config|

Devicetree override (tier 1)
============================

The die temperature provider normally falls back to the SoC's internal ``temp`` sensor.
To see the tier-1 override mechanism that allows a board to point the same provider to a different sensor, build with the additional overlay in this sample directory:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf7120dk/nrf7120/cpuapp samples/wifi/recal_monitor -- \
      -DEXTRA_DTC_OVERLAY_FILE=chosen_override.overlay

This DK has no second temperature sensor, so the overlay points the ``nordic,platform-metrics-die-temp-sensor`` chosen property back to the same ``temp`` node.
It exists to demonstrate that the override is applied, not to change the reading.

> On a custom board, point it to your own sensor's nodelabel instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DK does not include a second temperature sensor.
The overlay therefore points the ``nordic,platform-metrics-die-temp-sensor`` chosen property to the same ``temp`` node.

This configuration demonstrates that the override is applied.
It does not change the temperature reading.

On a custom board, point this property to the nodelabel of your own sensor.
```
